How's it going everyone and welcome back
to another video. We are going to be
talking about the 4hour power of three
or how to trade the open high low close
of a 4hour candle. Now, if you haven't
already seen my candle 2 and candle 3
video, be sure to check those out first,
as if you do not understand those, this
video will not make sense. So, the first
thing we're going to talk about is what
is a power of three or what is AMD?
Well, if you've seen my AMD video, we
have accumulation, manipulation, and
distribution. We have a consolidation
range, which then has an opposing run,
and then we are looking to trade this
distribution or the real move. Now, this
looks a bit confusing and it's not very
mechanical. So, how do we define it?
Well, that is where we will use swing
points or handle 2 or candle 3. The
first candle will always be accumulation
and then we're going to watch candle 2.
If candle 2 has a small wick, it can be
the manipulation as well as the
distribution. But as you can see here,
we have a reversal candle which is just
manipulation. And then the third candle
is the distribution. Now, if you've
watched my candle 2 and candle 3 video,
you know this, but the whole goal is to
be trading that distribution or the
expansion candle, that directional
candle. To do this, we have to
understand what it looks like on the
lower time frame. We're going to let
price open. We're going to let it form
its opposing run or its wick. And as
long as this is a shallow wick, it
supports expansion. So, since we have a
shallow wick, it supports expansion, it
forms a protected swing, and then it can
trade it higher. So going back to the
distribution candles or those expansion
candles, what are those two scenarios
going to look like? Candle one is always
going to be that accumulation candle. So
then I want to take a look on candle 2,
do we have a large opposing run where
candle 2 opens, makes this large move
against the direction we want to be
trading and then back up. When it has a
large opposing run that does not support
expansion higher in candle 2. So, I want
to let candle 2 close and then trade
candle three as we talked about in the
candle 3 video. Now, with a reversal to
expansion candle, candle 2 doesn't have
a large wick. Candle 2 makes a small
shallow opposing run below candle 1's
low and then trades it higher. Right?
So, in this scenario, you can see we
have accumulation, manipulation, and
then distribution. In this scenario, we
have accumulation and then the
manipulation and the distribution
happens in the same higher time frame
candle. So, let's take a better look at
this here. You can see this is an
example of when we're trading that
continuation expansion candle. We have
candle one, which is an accumulation.
Candle 2 forms that reversal, but you
can see it has a large opposing run. So,
we don't want to trade within this
candle. We want to wait for candle 3.
Here you can see candle 3 opens, makes a
shallow opposing run, and then has that
expansion higher. This is the candle we
want to be trading. Now, how do we go
about trading this? Well, we want to
just wait for this wick to form. So you
can see here price opens makes its
shallow opposing run has a change in the
state of delivery which makes this a
protected low. If this is a protected
low this means this wick has formed and
then we can trade this expansion higher.
Now what does it look like with a
reversal expansion candle? Well this is
where candle 2 has a small wick right?
So you can see a shallow opposing run.
It has a change in the state of
delivery. So that means that it formed
its protected swing. we can anticipate
this wick to hold and then we can trade
the expansion within the same higher
time frame candle. Now, since we are
focused on the 4hour candle within this
video, if I'm trading futures, these are
the timings that I'm going to look for.
And if you trade forex, these are the
timings you will want to be focused on.
So, just in summary, we want to align
this with a daily bias, but we are going
to use the 4hour candles to determine a
bias using candle closures and if price
should expand as it's already reversed
or if we are looking for it to reverse
and expand. Those are the two scenarios
and the main goal and what I want you to
say in your head is I need to let the
wick form and then look to trade the
body. If you always try to catch the
wick, you're going to get [snorts]
continuously stopped out. Just let the
wick form and then trade the
continuation that follows. So, let's get
into trading view and go over a few
examples. So, here we are with our first
example and we'll go top down on this
one and then we'll just stay focused on
the 4hour and the lower time frame
structure inside of that. But I want to
give one good example all the way from
top down to the lower time frame for
entries just to show you what it looks
like. So you can see here I'm always
going to start on the daily. You can see
Wednesday we formed a reversal, right?
And Thursday had a continuation. So we
can anticipate Friday to continue as
well as it closed outside Wednesday's
range. That means we can look for price
to trade to Thursday's high. Now if you
take a look, we are respecting the EQ of
the previous day's range and that
T-spot. So let's go down to the 15-minut
time frame. So here we are on the
15-minut time frame. I'm using the
15-minut time frame in this example as
it is paired with the 4hour time frame.
So, what do we notice here? You can see
that 2:00 had a reversal, right? We have
a reversal candle. So, we have
accumulation here. So, this is our
accumulation. This is our manipulation.
And we can go ahead and mark this out.
Here's our accumulation. Here's our
manipulation. And then we're expecting a
distribution higher. Now, taking a look
at this 4hour candle here, you can see
we had a large opposing run below the
2200 candles low. So, you can see we
opened, we did have a shallow run, but
we never had a change in the state of
delivery to confirm that low. So, price
continued lower. And at that point,
we're making a larger opposing run as
you can see on the wick of this candle.
Now, price returns back into the range
and closes pretty strong, forming this
reversal candle. So, that sets up when
could we expect this distribution to
occur? Well, in candle three, so at the
new higher time frame candle. Now, if
we're taking a look at this and we're
expecting price to expand in this
candle, as price has reversed in the
previous, we're expecting 6:00 a.m. to
10:00 a.m. to make a move higher. So,
with this, we'd want to look for what?
We want to look for the wick of 6 a.m.
to form. Now, how is that going to form?
It's going to form a protected swing.
Where could we form a protected swing in
here? Well, we have a sweep of a low.
Let's see if we get a protected swing
that forms.
And there you can see we have closed
over and we are inside a fair value gap
here. So I could then anticipate what?
Well, if we have a protected swing in
this new higher time frame candle, I'm
expecting this wick low to have formed
and I can look to trade it higher. This
means I can really take any entry in
here with my stop loss on this low
looking to target that previous day
high. So let's see how this works out.
And there we go. Trade to previous day
high. So just to review, we had a
bullish daily bias to previous day high.
And then this is an example of trading
that candle three, that continuation
expansion candle as we have a reversal
here in London. So we're expecting a New
York continuation. Large opposing run
creates a reversal candle. Then looking
to trade the expansion candle once its
wick has formed. So here we are in
another example and in this case we're
doing a forex example on USD JPY. Now if
you notice here we have a reversal
candle on the weekly time frame. So we
could be looking for price to expand
higher on the weekly time frame. So
within this week we'd want to see what a
small a shallow opposing run to form its
wick in candle 3 and trade higher. So
that's giving us our bias. Now if we
look here we have expansion retracement
and this is a retracement because it is
a slow shallow move into what a fair
value gap and it's leaving failure
swings on the high. So you can see how
it's leaving all these highs here. So
with this candle closure here this is
where we could drop down to the 15-minut
time frame and look for an entry. So
here we are on the 15-minut time frame
and you can see how those timings are a
bit different from futures. we have
1,700, 2100, and then now we have this
1:00 a.m. candle. So, there's a few
things we can look for here. If we're
looking to try to trade long, we would
want to see a reversal off of our
previous candle's low, this 2100. So,
the two scenarios, we have a shallow
opposing run in which we can trade that
higher within the same candle, or we
have a larger opposing run, in which
case we're going to wait for the open of
the next candle to try to trade it
higher. So, let's see what happens.
So, normally if we're going to have a
shallow opposing run, we want to see
that early into the higher time frame
candle. When price goes up first, that
usually means it's going to come down.
So, this is not one where I'm looking to
try to trade this reversal now as it's
already made too large of a range.
Now, we have expansion. Is this met with
expansion higher? Because we need that
expansion met with expansion to confirm
a reversal. And we want to look for a
change in the state of delivery.
And there we get the change in the state
of delivery. And you can see the model
will then print. But if you take a look
here, if we're trying to trade the open,
low, high, close. What is happening?
We've already formed this lower wick.
Would we want to see price go all the
way back down here to form a new wick?
No. Because then that would be expansion
met with expansion, which is bearish. So
at this case, I have two options. one, I
can either let this trade go because I
don't feel like chasing it, or I can
look for a continuation entry as long as
my target remains open. So, let's see if
we can get a continuation entry. And for
that, I would need a new protected
swing.
And what do we have here? We have price
hitting a short-term target, we get
expansion, retracement, and then because
we reach into this fair value gap,
that's an important level. We close over
the down close candle into that. That is
then a protected swing and I can use
that as a stop loss as long as I can get
2 R to these highs. Right? So I could
look for 2.45R to those highs. Let's see
how that works out. And there we go.
Now, why would I not want to really
extend myself on this trade? Well, we're
trying to trade an expansion candle,
right? One, expansion candles only have
so much range and so much time. We're
going to get a new candle at 9:00 a.m.
I'm not trying to hold really beyond
that as I hit a target and we've already
used our range. If I want to continue to
trade this higher, then I'm going to
want to wait for the open of the new
higher time frame candle. So, let's see
what that looks like
here. You can see if we are going to
form another continuation after hitting
this high, I'm going to want to wait for
that new higher time frame candle cuz
that gives us a new candle in new range.
Then, I'm doing the same thing. I want
to let this low form and I can trade the
expansion higher. Let's see if we get a
continuation.
We do. Right. So once we get the closure
through the series of downclosed candles
that swept out an important level which
is right there,
this is now a protected low. So I'm
expecting this wick to hold as we trade
higher. Now I'm not a fan of trading
over old highs, but I'm just trying to
show you the concept of what I am trying
to do here. So let's get into another
example. So, now that we have gone over
a few examples using the 4hour and
15minut time frame pairing, which I find
is the most straightforward, let's go
over a few different examples using
lower time frame pairings. So, what does
it look like if you're trading a 4hour
power of three and using a lower time
frame fractal model? This is what people
refer to as GXT, which is using
Garrett's 4hour profiling with my
fractal model. So, you can see here we
have a 2 a.m. reversal on London here on
gold. And so we can anticipate 6 a.m. to
have a continuation. Now, what would we
want to see for a continuation? We'd
want to see price open, make a high
while respecting the EQ of the previous
candle, and then traded lower. Our whole
goal is to let this wick form and then
trade the body. So, how do we do that on
the lower time frame? Well, I can go
down to the 3minut or the 5minut time
frame, and then I want to wait for a
lower time frame fractal model to align
with that. So, here you can see we have
a consolidation. What do we want to see
within a consolidation? If we're going
to trade this lower, we want to see the
consolidation highs ran out and then a
fractal model to form and that's still
respecting the EQ. So, let's see what
happens.
You can see we're continuing that
consolidation
and there we run out the high or engage
that high. So, now what do we need? We
need a change in the state of delivery
to confirm that reversal point and then
we can look to trade it lower. Now, what
are we doing here? We're using a lower
time frame fractal model to help confirm
the wick of that 4hour time frame. So,
let's see what happens.
And there we get the closure through.
Now, this is one where if I am very
confident in this trade, I could look to
take an entry here, put my stop on a
protected swing or at least above 50% of
this change in the state of delivery as
well as the EQ and then look for 2R or I
can search for a continuation. Let's
see.
So, here we are right before the open of
the new higher time frame. You can see
we're getting a candle 3 closure on the
30 minute also forming a protected
swing. So, I'm pretty confident in price
trading lower here. Where do I want to
see it not trade above while marking out
50% of this as well as the opposing
candle here in the 30. I wouldn't want
to see price trade above this area,
right? It can trade into that but not
above it. And here we have a swing right
above that area. So, this is where if I
wanted to capture this move, I could
look to take a positional entry, putting
my entry on the open of the new higher
time frame candle, putting my stop on
the protected swing, and then looking
for 2 R. Now, that would be a positional
entry if I'm confident in the move. Or I
could look for a continuation. Let's see
what happens. So here we get a move
lower to that negative one. Now let's
see.
We fall just shy of our 2R and we reach
into a fair value gap here. So now if
we're going to form another
continuation, what do I want to see? A
new protected swing
here. You can see we go back to our
entry.
And what do I want to see? If we're
going to form a swing here, we need to
go and close below this level. But we
didn't. It doesn't mean we can't form a
swing right here, but we're going to
need another confirmation in here.
And there we go. That would be our
second confirmation. And if I didn't
already take profit, this is where I
could look to take an entry still. And
why could I? Well, I still have an hour
left, expecting this candle to expand
lower. But this is the entry that I
would prefer. That would be a positional
entry. But what happens?
We get that continuation lower. And if
you notice, this 6 a.m. expansion candle
has a small wick and a large body. And
if we go ahead and review this, all we
are trying to do is trade a lower time
frame fractal model that confirms the
formation of that wick. And then we are
going to trade the expansion lower. So
here we are with our next example. We're
on NQ on the 5minut time frame. And you
can see price has swept out its previous
day high. And we have expansion met with
expansion which is forming a reversal.
And you can see that with this higher
time frame wick here on the 6 a.m. 4hour
candle. So if 6 a.m. forms a reversal,
we can look for 10:00 a.m. to continue
lower. That would be that candle 3
continuation or the continuation
expansion candle. Right? So where do we
want to see that form? Well, we can use
the lower time frame fractal model here
where we have an hourly and five minute
model and it's printing out the T-spot.
We know we want to see price open, make
its wick in here, and then trade lower.
That applies to both time frames here.
So, if we don't want to see price trade
above this area, we don't want to see it
reach into this fair value gap. So, we
could use this as our stop loss to trade
it lower. So, we could look to enter
anywhere in here, put my stop on that
opposing candle or even on the fair
value gap and then look for 2R or I
could look to the negative one standard
deviation. Now, why would I look to the
negative one standard deviation when we
have a large opposing run? It doesn't
make sense in terms of the range to look
for these deviations out here. So, I'll
use negative -1 as my target. So, let's
see how that entry works.
And there we go. And we hit our target.
And you can see price opens, makes its
high, a very shallow high, and then can
trade it lower. And this is one of those
positional entries again where I don't
know where exactly price is going to
form its wick cuz it's kind of lacking
that point of interest in here. I just
want to be on side with the move. And
I'm going to position my stop loss in an
area that if it reaches it, I am
invalidated. So here we are in our last
example. We have the 5-minut time frame
as you can see here with the hourly
model. So the 5m minute, the hourly and
then the 4hour time frame here. And
we're just going to walk through some
price action adding it all together. So
if you notice here, we were in a bearish
structure here with the candle 3
closure. And price opens 9:30, makes a
move higher. So then we get a move lower
to these lows. off these lows, we have a
nice V-shaped reversal. So, seeing that,
it makes me think if price is going to
reverse here, it can trade where all
these failure swings on the high. So,
I'd want to see price trade up to these
highs here. Now, taking a look, we do
have a fairly shallow wick off this
previous low on the 4 hour. So, it can
support expansion higher. It is more
than likely going to wait for 10:00 a.m.
as what we are 5 minutes away. As we let
this play, you can see we have SMT, we
have that CISD. This is where I could
look to take an entry on the reversal.
I'd want to have my stop at least on the
body low and then look for those highs.
So that would be the first possible
entry here,
but I could also look for a continuation
higher. And here you can see we are
wanting to trade the open low, high
close of this 10 a.m. candle. Price
opens, makes a shallow wick, and you can
see we have a shallow wick on both the
4hour and the hourly supporting
expansion. And we reach into a point of
interest. So this is where I could look
to take an entry as a continuation as
well, right? Because fractally I don't
expect price to trade to this low. So
that could be another entry. And at this
point everything is supporting
expansion. So I just want to look for
continuation entries to this high
here. You can see we get a
consolidation, we get a sweep, and then
we have a new protected swing. Once
again, this would be another entry to
that high as long as I can get to R. I
do. And let's see what happens.
Takes a minute. Let's see if we get
there.
And there we go. And hit our target. So,
you can see there's various different
ways to enter in here. You can enter on
that reversal candle or you can wait for
that expansion candle. But you can see 6
a.m. reversal, 10:00 a.m. continuation
aligning that with a fractal model on
the lower time frame. You could also
just use the 15-minut time frame and
look for entries in there, which is also
valid. And now we hit our target. Now,
let's talk about this. If we're looking
to try to trade this back into the
range, does it make sense to fight this
expansion candle? No. It makes more
sense to wait for this expansion candle
to close, which would be at 1,400 and
then look for a reversal candle to form
and trade that back into the range. So,
really, this is a zone where I would
just not want to touch as it hits our
target, but I don't have any reason to
trade that back lower.
So now we have a consolidation and this
fits the phases of price as well as our
idea. If we have a consolidation and
we're looking for a reversal off this
previous candle's high, those both line
up. For a consolidation, we'd want to
see a manipulation of the high to trade
it lower. And that would also line up
with the new 4hour candle. So let's see
what happens
here. We take out the high. Do we get a
change in the state of delivery?
And there we go. We do get a change in
the state of delivery. And that's also
right at the open of a new higher time
frame candle. So now we're trading a
reversal candle on the 4 hour with a
continuation here. So if I wanted to
trade that, that's something where I'm
going to have to enter at the open
because with a very aggressive move,
it's unlikely to give much of a
retracement and then look for 2 R. Let's
see if this gives us anything or if
there is any continuation that follows.
Oh, looks like it might give us a
continuation.
Let's see if we can get a closure below
there.
We do. So, you could look for a
continuation there. And does candle 4
continue? Right, it does. So, you can
see this is an example right here at
10:00 a.m. of a continuation 4hour
candle, right? Where we have a reversal
at 6 a.m. 10 a.m. continuation. This
1400 candle is an example of that
manipulation and expansion occurring in
the same higher time frame candle. So
you can see both of these support
expansion. This one supports expansion
higher. This one supports expansion
lower. And that's where you want to
align your lower time frame entries. So
I hope you enjoyed this video. If you do
have any questions, be sure to leave
them in the comment section below and
I'll get to them when I can. But I hope
you have a great rest of your day and
I'll see you guys next time. Have a good
one.